








THE WIDOW SPIDERS OF FLORIDA
                      John D. McCrone 2
                      Karl J. Stone3


  Introduction: There are four species of the
black widow genus Latrodectus that are
known to occur in Florida: the southern
black widow, Latrodectus mactans (Fabri-
cius); the northern black widow, L. various
Walckenaer; the red widow, L. bishop Kas-
ton; and the brown widow, L. geometricus
C. L. Koch. Since the immatures and the
adult male Latrodectus do not pose a public
health problem, descriptions in this publica-
tion are limited to the mature females. Males
cannot be identified to species easily.
  The Genus: The spiders in this genus are
fairly large, the overall length with legs ex-
tended is about 11/2 inches. They have a
small cephalothorax and a large, high,
smooth, subglobose abdomen. Although the
whole body is densely covered with short
almost microscopic hairs, the spiders have a
shiny naked appearance. Some of the charac-
ters used to separate the species are difficult
to see without a microscope and special tech-
niques. When possible, specimens should be
captured and placed in a vial or bottle of
70% alcohol, such as rubbing alcohol, and
submitted for positive identification by a
specialist. Fortunately, however, in Florida
it is possible to identify most adult female
specimens by means of their distinctive color
patterns.

LATRODECTUS MACTANS, The Southern
Black Widow

  Identification: The body is glossy black to
sepia. The dorsum of the abdomen is usually
free of markings, although occasionally there
are remnants of the immature color pattern.
There is a red hourglass marking on the ven-

  1Contribution No. 53, Entomology Section, Divi-
sion of Plant Industry
  2Associate Professor of Biology, Florida Presby-
terian College, St. Petersburg, Florida
  3Entomologist, Division of Plant Industry, Florida
Department of Agriculture, Gainesville, Florida.


ter of the abdomen and a red spot on the
posterior end of the abdomen just above
the spinnerets.
  Distribution: This is the most widespread
species of the genus in Florida. It has been
taken in most counties and probably occurs
in all of them. The other species have more
limited distributions.
  Habitat and Life History: The southern
black widow occupies a large variety of habi-
tats, usually near human habitation or in
newly disturbed areas. It makes an irregular
web of very tough silk in such protected
places as stumps, discarded pipe and build-
ing materials, under stones, in storm sewers
and water meter boxes, and under park
benches and tables. It is seldom found in
houses in Florida. Connected to the web is
a small silken retreat. In Florida, this spider
has no well defined breeding cycle, and all
stages of development can be found at any
time. The females make several egg sacs
during an extended period after mating.
These egg sacs are pear-shaped to almost
globular, and the tough papery outer cover-
ing ranges in color from white to tan. Each
sac contains from one hundred to several
hundred yellowish eggs. Often these eggs
have been parasitized either by dipterous or
hymenopterous egg parasites. In addition to
parasites, the main factors limiting popula-
tion size are extreme climatic conditions
such as extremely high or low humidity and
freezing.


LATRODECTUS VARIOUS, The Northern
Black Widow

  Identification: This species has the same
general appearance as L. mactans. It differs
in that there is a median longitudinal row
of red spots on the dorsum of the abdomen,
and on the venter there are two transverse
red bars instead of an hourglass.
  Distribution: In Florida, L. various has
been found only west of Tallahassee. It is

 
