







particularly abundant in the vicinity of Tor-
reya State Park.
  Habitat and Life History: The northern
black widow is found in mesic and xeric
hammocks where the adults make webs in
the branches of trees. These webs occur in
a range of 3-20 feet off the ground. A dome-
shaped retreat is located in the leaves at the
end of a branch, and treads radiate out to
one or more branches. Unlike L. mactans,
L. various has a well defined breeding cycle.
During March and April, immature spiders
are widely scattered in forest litter, and in
late spring, adults are found in the trees.
Mating occurs and the males die immediately
afterward. During the summer, adult females
are found in the retreats with one or more
egg sacs which are similar to those of L.
mactans. By late fall all adults are gone, and
very small immatures are found in the forest
litter.




LATRODECTUS BISHOP, The Red Widow

  Identification: The cephalothorax and legs
are reddish orange. The entire abdomen may
be black, or may have dorsal median red
spots or dorsal red spots surrounded by a
yellow border, while the venter, lacking a
complete hourglass, may have one or two
red spots.
  Distribution: This species has a very re-
stricted distribution. It has been found only
in sand-pine scrub associations in central
and southeastern Florida.
  Habitat and Life History: The red widow
almost always makes its web off the gound
in palmettps in sand-pine scrub. The web
retreat is made by taking a palmetto frond
and rolling it into a cone. The interior of
the cone is lined with silk and the egg sacs
are hung from the sides of the cone. The
egg sacs are light gray to white in color and
have a fairly soft outer covering unlike the
papery covering of L. mactans and L. vari-
olus. The threads of the web spread from
frond to frond of the palmettos and form a
sheet-like pattern. Adults are found all year.


LATRODECTUS GEOMETRICUS, The Brown
Widow

  Identification: This species varies in color
from light gray to light brown or even al-
most black. The dorsum of the abdomen has
a highly variable pattern consisting of black,
white, red, and yellow markings. On the
venter is an hourglass which is orange or
yellowish red in color.
  Distribution: L. geometricus is cosmotropi-
cal. It probably was introduced into Florida
and is most abundant in coastal cities in the
lower part of the peninsula, but a few have
been found as far north as Daytona Beach.
  Habitat and Life History: The brown wid-
ow is quite abundant in some of the coastal
cities of southeastern Florida. It usually
makes its web on buildings in well lighted
areas. Service stations are particularly good
places to find them. The webs are somewhat
like those of L. mactans but are smaller,
while the silk is not as tough and the web-
bing is very dirty and unkempt. The egg
sacs appear very different from those of
other Latrodectus sp. Instead of being
smooth, the outside of the egg sac is covered
with little papules. Adults are found all year,
and there does not seem to be any definite
breeding cycle.


Medical Importance

  All four species have very potent venoms,
but for a variety of reasons, only L. mactans
is likely to be involved in a spider bite case
in Florida. If an individual is bitten by one
of the other species, the same measures
recommended for L. mactans bites should
be taken.
  The bite of L. mactans produces a sharp
pain similar to a needle puncture. Usually
this pain disappears rapidly, but it may per-
sist for hours. Local muscular cramps are
felt 15 minutes to several hours after the
bite. The muscles most frequently affected
are those in the thigh, shoulder, and back.
Later severe pain spreads to the abdomen,
and there is weakness and tremor. The ab-
dominal muscles show a boardlike rigidity.

 
