












FOREWORD


    Entomologists of the Division of Plant In-
  dustry, Florida Department of Agriculture,
  provide an identification service for the State
  of Florida of insects, mites, spiders, scor-
  pions, millipedes, centipedes, and other ar-
  thropods. Spiders, particularly, seem   to
  arouse the curiosity of many people who
  submit specimens for identification and re-
  quest control recommendations. Like the
  snakes, spiders are little understood and
  Such maligned by most people, usually with
  little or no justification. So far as known,
  with the exception of the members of two
  ssmall families, all spiders have poison
i glands. The venom is used to kill their prey
and as a means of defense. However, only a
  few species, such as certain tarantulas and
  other spiders of the tropics, produce avenom
  virulent enough to be harmful to man. More-
  over, most species are too timid and do not
  attempt to bite even when handled roughly.
  In Florida, only the spiders belonging to the
  Group commonly called widows are capable
  of inflicting a bite serious to man. The bite
  of the larger wolf spiders and the fearsome
  looking silk spider is little worse than the
  Sting of a bee or wasp. Most other native
  spiders seldom bite man, and many are in-
Scapable of doing so.
    While the incidence of bites by widow
  spiders is not high, the widow spiders are


fairly common in Florida, and questions
regarding them are received frequently by
the entomologists of the Division of Plant
Industry who curate the Florida State Collec-
tion of Arthropods. The seriousness of the
bite of a mature female widow spider sug-
gests that the general public should be cor-
rectly informed concerning this group of
spiders, including their prompt recognition
and the treatments recommended for bites.
  The Widow Spiders of Florida is the sec-
ond in an irregularly appearing series of
publications relating to the insects and other
arthropods of Florida and neighboring land
areas-the southeastern United States, the
Bahama Islands, the Greater and Lesser An-
tilles, and the land areas in and round the
Gulf of Mexico-with emphasis on taxonomy,
ecology, biology, and zoogeography. Empha-
sis in this series, initiated early in 1965 with
the publication of Lepidoptera of Florida by
C. P. Kimball, is on the Florida fauna.


               Howard V. Weems, Jr.
               Editor
Entomology Section
Division of Plant Industry
Florida Department of Agriculture
Gainesville, Florida
March 1, 1965


  S   -   y

ftr


  \h: f'
  'I--

 
