







Respiration becomes spasmodic, and the pa-
tient is restless and anxious. During this
period a feeble pulse, cold clammy skin,
labored breathing and speech, light stupor,
and delirium may be noted. Convulsions,
urinary retention, shock, cyanosis, nausea
and vomiting, insomnia, and cold sweats also
have been reported.
  Local measures, such as those used for
snakebite, do not seem to be effective be-
cause the venom spreads very rapidly. Medi-
cal treatment should be sought immediately,
and the patient should be kept quiet and
placed in bed as soon as possible. One vial
of Lyovac antivenin should be administered
to patients under 14 years of age. The acute
pain of the muscle spasms may be relieved
by prolonged warm baths, hydrotherapy, or
the intravenous injection of 10% calcium
gluconate. Recently, intravenous injection
of 10 ml of methocarbamol (Robaxine) over
a 5-minute period, followed by slow intra-
venous drip of the drug in sodium chloride,
has proved to be very effective.
  Death may occur from the venom, depend-
ing upon the victim's physical condition,


age, and the location of the bite. Complicat-
ing factors such as syphilis, heart disease,
and/or kidney disease coupled with the ven-
om may produce a fatality. Adults are more
resistant to poison than children, but indi-
vidual sensitivity may enhance or depress
the reaction of both age groups. The only
case on record of a healthy adult being
killed by the venom is one in which the vic-
tim was bitten at the base of the skull, there-
by giving the brain a potent and rapid dose
of venom.




Control

  Spiders and egg sacs may be crushed with
a broom, and any debris that harbors the
spiders should be cleared away. Five to 10%
DDT or 2% lindane can be used to control
these spiders. BHC used in closed areas at
the rate of 1/6 oz. of the product per 130 cu.
yds. is the most effective insecticide. Treat-
ment should be repeated after 30 days to
destroy any broods which have emerged.


                        ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

  Appreciation is expressed to Dr. Thomas L. Levi, Museum of Comparative Zoology,
J. Walker, Jr., Department of Entomology, Harvard University, for loans of photos; and
University of Florida, for editing the text; Mr. Edward L. Wells, Division of Plant In-
Dr. Howard K. Wallace, Department of Zo- dustry, for photographic assistance.
ology, University of Florida, and Dr. Herbert

 
